## Inspecting a DataFrame
When you get a new DataFrame to work with, the first thing you need to do is explore it and see what it contains. There are several useful methods and attributes for this.

- `.head()` returns the first few rows (the “head” of the DataFrame).
- `.info()` shows information on each of the columns, such as the data type and number of missing values.
- `.shape` returns the number of rows and columns of the DataFrame.
- `.describe()` calculates a few summary statistics for each column.

## Parts of a DataFrame

To better understand DataFrame objects, it's useful to know that they consist of three components, stored as attributes:

- `.values`: A two-dimensional NumPy array of values.
- `.columns`: An index of columns: the column names.
- `.index`: An index for the rows: either row numbers or row names.

You can usually think of indexes as a list of strings or numbers, though the pandas `Index` data type allows for more sophisticated options. 

## Sorting rows

Finding interesting bits of data in a DataFrame is often easier if you change the order of the rows. You can sort the rows by passing a column name to `.sort_values()`.

In cases where rows have the same value (this is common if you sort on a categorical variable), you may wish to break the ties by sorting on another column. You can sort on multiple columns in this way by passing a list of column names.

|Sort on …|Syntax|
|---|---|
|one column|`df.sort_values("breed")`|
|multiple columns|`df.sort_values(["breed", "weight_kg"])`|

## Subsetting columns

When working with data, you may not need all of the variables in your dataset. Square brackets (`[]`) can be used to select only the columns that matter to you in an order that makes sense to you. To select only `"col_a"` of the DataFrame `df`, use

```
df["col_a"]
```

To select `"col_a"` and `"col_b"` of `df`, use

```
df[["col_a", "col_b"]]
```

## Subsetting rows

A large part of data science is about finding which bits of your dataset are interesting. One of the simplest techniques for this is to find a subset of rows that match some criteria. This is sometimes known as _filtering rows_ or _selecting rows_.

There are many ways to subset a DataFrame, perhaps the most common is to use relational operators to return `True` or `False` for each row, then pass that inside square brackets.

```
dogs[dogs["height_cm"] > 60]
dogs[dogs["color"] == "tan"]
```

You can filter for multiple conditions at once by using the "bitwise and" operator, `&`.

```
dogs[(dogs["height_cm"] > 60) & (dogs["color"] == "tan")]
```

## Subsetting rows by categorical variables

Subsetting data based on a categorical variable often involves using the "or" operator (`|`) to select rows from multiple categories. This can get tedious when you want all states in one of three different regions, for example. Instead, use the `.isin()` method, which will allow you to tackle this problem by writing one condition instead of three separate ones.

```
colors = ["brown", "black", "tan"]
condition = dogs["color"].isin(colors)
dogs[condition]
```

## Adding new columns

You aren't stuck with just the data you are given. Instead, you can add new columns to a DataFrame. This has many names, such as _transforming_, _mutating_, and _feature engineering_.

You can create new columns from scratch, but it is also common to derive them from other columns, for example, by adding columns together or by changing their units.